---
layout: post
title:  "Not leetcode"
date:   2023-05-13 09:00:00 -0500
tags: programming
---

Leetcode, for those who don't know, is a collection of data structures and
algorithms programming challenges. More often than not, I find it difficult to
maintain interest in the problems because they all seem so contrived and it's
not that rewarding to solve.

There are plenty of articles about what's wrong with leetcode, so instead, I'm
going to share some alternatives that I have found much more engaging and
actually useful. For what it's worth, these challenges tend to be more involved
than ones you would find on leetcode.


## Advent of code

Every December since 2015, [advent of code](https://adventofcode.com/) hosts 25
themed programming challenges to save Christmas. The challenges are released
each day of the advent calendar and usually grow in complexity. They also have
some aspect of data structure / algorithms, but the overarching story makes it
feel more purposeful.


## Protohackers

[Protohackers](https://protohackers.com/) is a set of (at the time of writing)
12 problems that challenge you to create servers for various network protocols.
The problems get more challenging as you progress, but you can work out of
order. You also need to publicly host your solutions, which is a good motivator
to actually learn how to do that.


## Gossip glomers

[Gossip glomers](https://fly.io/dist-sys/) is a set of challenges to teach
distributed systems. Everything runs locally, including the test suite, and
there's no leader board or logins.


## Hackattic

[Hackattic](https://hackattic.com/) is an unordered collection of challenges
that delve into real world protocols and systems. It has (at the time of
writing) 18 challenges and 9 kata (small challenges).


## Cryptopals

[Cryptopals](https://www.cryptopals.com/) focuses on exercises that demonstrate
attacks on real-world crypto. The goal is to build up knowledge of
cryptosystems and how to attack them in order to instill defensive programming
practices.


## CS Primer

[CS Primer](https://csprimer.com/) is a subscription platform for learning
computer science by writing code. It is self paced and covers a wide range of
advanced topics. Being a paid service, it mostly resembles university courses
with access to video explanations, a community of other enrolled students, and
office hours with the creator.

Each topic has one free explanation video and programming challenge for you to
try out as well.


## More?

These are just the ones I've encountered, if you know of others I'd love to
hear about them!
