---
date: "2022-11-19T00:00:00Z"
tags: misc
title: Interests as Orbits
---

I watched [a video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A2sS00egAzg) recently about
(mislabeled) laziness and how some people aren't built for the "consistent and
organized" lifestyle. I find this subject really interesting because I have
noticed the [effects of consistency](/posts/effectiveness-of-deadlines.html)
and know how powerful they can be. But at the same time, I have also noticed my
motivations and interests ebb and flow. It's one of those situations where I
know I *should* do something, but I'll let it stew in the back of my mind until
it bubbles to the front. I never thought this approach was inherently bad. It
could be better, but it always worked itself out eventually.

Anyway, the narrator in the video explains a very similar concept in which she
doesn't do something because it doesn't interest her, then she becomes (very)
interested and hyper-focuses on the subject, advancing very quickly. This made
me reflect on my own project habits, and I think I follow a similar but less
intense style. For me, I'm always absorbing meta-information about things that
exist and pique my interest. I've gradually built up a collection of subjects I
know interest me, but instead of pursuing consistently or intensely, I find my
progression to be orbital.

Let me explain.

It's sort of like planets orbiting a star. I'm the star (of course) and my
interests are the planets. The closer the planet is in its orbit of the star,
the more interested I am in it. What I mean is that my immediate focus on a
particular interest is periodic. Sometimes I will work on a project for a few
months, shelf it for a year, then pick it up again. "Planets" in this analogy
can have different orbital periods, elliptic shapes, and can even fall out of
orbit as well.

In this weird analogy I made up, "consistent and organized" people would have
perfectly circular orbital interests, "short burst of high intensity" people
would have highly elliptic orbits (slingshots?), and I think I fall somewhere
in between. It's not a perfect analogy, but it visualizes the experience of ebb
and flow I have witnessed in my own life. It also does a decent job of
capturing the feeling of security that even if I'm not focusing on something
right now, I eventually will.
